[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Thoughts podcast. [music] I'm
Tracy Aloway
>> and I'm Joe Wisenthal. Joe, I was uh
lurking on the Homestead subreddit
recently, [laughter]
as one does, and
>> as one, as Tracy does,
>> um there have been a number of posts
recently about hay prices and hay
getting more expensive. And the craziest
thing is there's one guy, one poster who
keeps talking about hay prices. And on
one of his posts, someone came in and
said, they commented, "You should go on
All Thoughts."
>> [laughter]
>> I love episodes that come about that
way. All right. Can I make a little
confession here?
>> Please.
>> I've done no prep for this episode. I
mean, I, you know, I'm often not as
diligent as you are, but I was just
like, you know what?
>> I know that hay exists. I've seen it in
bales. I figure something is dried. I
know it's consumed. I have done no
research.
I've just Yeah,
>> you know a little bit about hay though
because we spoke with um that was it New
Mexico or Arizona now? I can't remember
the farmer growing alalfa.
>> Yeah, it's like fermented, right? Isn't
hay like sort of like fermented and
dried or something?
>> Yeah, something like that.
>> I mean, I guess we'll
>> But one of the reasons it's good to grow
hay in the desert is because you don't
have to worry about it getting wet in
the drying process.
>> Yeah. Oh, right. I did. We did learn
that.
>> All right. So, that's the one hay fact
that we all know. So, we're going to be
talking about hay prices today. But
beyond that, I find the hay market
really interesting because [laughter]
there are No, seriously.
>> No, no, I believe you. I believe you.
>> There aren't that many markets out there
nowadays that are like non-transparent.
I want to say
>> do we have any hay indices on the
terminal?
>> There's a PPI index.
>> Oh, it is.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> So, you can look up like alphaalfpha hay
pi.
>> So, how's that been looking?
>> I assume I mean everything is up. I I
just like if you name something that
exists in the world, it's probably up.
>> But what is US
>> hay seeds? Yeah. Well, no. I don't know.
Is this even up to date? I I can't even
find one.
>> I don't know. But this is what I mean.
Like it is not a transparent market.
It's very fractured by type of hay. So,
I didn't realize this, but there's like
Timothy, there's alalfa, there's supreme
hay. Um, so I was just going to say,
like I said, I haven't done any I don't
know anything about hey. I decided I
would just learn it all on the fly, but
I also I did do a little bit of research
about our upcoming guest who you
identified
>> the guy posting on Reddit. the guy
posting and I have said this his
business is very cool and we'll talk
about it but I just want to say the
business that he has built in terms of
like becoming the man who knows about
hay is advice I've given to young
journalists who have like asked me like
for career I've literally said this and
I'm going to drop some alpha uh no I'm
going to drop some that was an I'm going
to drop some alalfa alpha here and but
now it'll be commoditized by the time I
say it I've always thought that one way
you could like build a business as a
young journalist or someone is find a
find a piece of public data that exists
that is out there that is consumable for
free that nobody is regularly looking at
gather it become the central repository
for it and then occasionally comment on
it there's all kinds of data in the
world a million public agencies of all
sorts are producing monthly reports on
this or that and PDFs that nobody is
looking at And if you say, you know
what, I want to learn about X and I want
to end a newsletter, write update what X
is doing each week or month or whatever,
you can become the man, the axe on this
topic. And the guest that you have found
for today's episode, I think has done
exactly what I've told numerous young
individuals to do. So, we'll see if this
I'm curious about hay, but I'm also
curious about uh this individual's
business model.
>> It's a good market structure story and I
guess technology story and a media
story. Yeah, exactly. All right, so
without further ado, we do in fact have
the perfect guest. We're going to be
speaking with Aiden Johnson. He is the
founder of
>> Can you guess? Well, you know what the
company is, Haywire. It's such a good
name um for what this company actually
does. So Aiden, thank you so much for
coming on OddLods.
>> Yeah, I appreciate you guys having me
on.
>> So why don't we start with the basics?
What is it that Haywire is actually
doing?
Yeah. So, essentially what we are doing
and kind of what we built our business
around is pulling public data just like
Joe said and kind of putting it all on
plain English newsletters for our
subscribers. So, um I mean USDA
publishes reports uh weekly, bi-weekly,
and then even monthly depending on
region. So, uh we kind of built a a
system and a technology and our model to
kind of do all the hard work for us and
then analyze it and put it onto plain
English. So, it's it's been a great
great um I don't know, like lesson, I
guess, learning going through the flaws,
making sure we're producing the most
accurate data. But, no, it's been fun.
Well, let's go into this a little bit
more. And I'm sure that AI makes the
process of collecting [snorts] and
absorbing the relevant data uh easier.
But what are these reports out there
that you're able to mine? Who's
producing them? what what are the what
is the sort of the the public data
source that you're mining and what can
you pull from it?
>> Yeah, so we actually have a direct API
integration with the USDA. So we get
live feed strictly from them and that
basically funnels into our four system
type of I guess you could say
verification and so we're mining that
which publishes every week but the
problem we're kind of running into is
data. Sorry. When you say we're mining
that, what is this report? Let's go step
by step. What is this report that the
USDA publishes every week?
>> Yeah. So, the USDA is publishing
basically auction prices throughout the
region, throughout the countries. So,
every auction house will report kind of
what they're paying or what they're
seeing on the ground there and then
it'll be um put on a PDFs but buried in
PDF. So, it's kind of hard for people to
find.
>> Yeah.
>> So, you actually call up some of the
auction houses, by the way. I didn't
even realize there were auctions. I
didn't either
>> for hay, but you call them up to get
additional pricing information as well,
right?
>> Yeah. So, we actually have uh Rock
Valley Iowa uh Rock Valley hay auction
as our primary data partner, which is
one of the biggest hay auctions in the
country. So, having them to kind of get
intel from what they're seeing on the
the ground to kind of cover the gray
area between the USDA data and then the
live market, what people are actually
seeing on the ground. And we are
actively trying to, you know, branch off
and network to more auction houses
throughout uh the country to different
regions so we can kind of get a forecast
what's actually happening there.
>> Joe, this reminds me of the old scrap
metal market, right? Where like you had
a broker who actually had to call up all
these junkyards and ask what price they
were selling.
>> I don't know if that's still the case,
but it might actually still be the case.
But if you like and I remember 11 or 12
years ago like very early on talk when I
joined Bloomberg talking to one of our
reporters uh she was based in London who
was covering scrap metal and she talked
about that part of it was essentially
calling up uh the scrap yards and say
what'd you price for and of course you
know it's not that different from
liebore right it's not like we think of
something like these very opaque illquid
markets like scrap metal but that
fundamental idea of we're going to ring
people up or get an email or something
and then triangulate the data is how
some of the most you know famous liquid
markets there are.
>> That's the alpha alpha alpha.
>> That's the that yes that's
>> calling people up.
>> Calling people of wait so just on these
reports that the USDA publishes I assume
a it's not is it just a hay report and
do they just publish price data or
volume data or quality data? Is there
anything else that like what are the
what is the context with which you pull
this data from? Yeah. So there's many
sources that um we can pull our data
from, but specifically on the USDA data,
it'll it'll show the region uh the type
of bail, the weight, you know, the
quality of hay or alphalfpha that's
producing. So, and that automatically
goes into our database and it kind of
makes it easy for us. So when we take on
ground intel that we can put it through
our data wheel and it's able to, you
know, cross reference it with the USDA
data and the table it kind of presets.
So we're able to make sure it's not uh
the the data that's coming from the
ground is, you know, valuable and
actually not uh hallucinations, I guess.
>> You know, uh I know we're going to get
to hay specifically, but just as we're
talking about sort of this business
model, there have been some really
successful, you know, I think like it
might be flight radar 24. One of these
other uh things that was worth a lot of
money was essentially some people who
found a really good way to visualize or
present Yeah. data that was already
public but it's opaque etc. And so I'm
very fascinated by this business model
of like there's all this data out there
and if you put a nice skin on it user
interface you make a user interface and
actually like let me just see the price
or let me just see the map that it's
moving on can suddenly be a very
monetizable thing.
>> Well I expect with vibe coding it's
going to become more common as well. So
Aiden, why why did you decide to get
into this particular project? And if you
don't mind me saying so, like you look
you look very young. I assume you're a
young founder of Haywire. Uh why was
this your your first project? Yeah. Your
passion project.
>> Oh man. Well, if you were to tell me
this last year, I wouldn't believe you
because the idea was kind of thrown out
by my dad who was actually looking to
start a startup company for Alpha Cubes.
And throughout that process, he kind of
needed he was crunching number and he
asked the question, what is the cost of
hay to, you know, find that raw
materials price? So that's kind of how
it all started. And he's like, Aiden,
you know, you should probably like start
this. It's a great idea. And you know,
at the time, I'm like, okay, come on.
I'm 19 years old. I'm a college
basketball player. I don't really care
about Hey,
>> which year was it?
>> This was year 2025.
>> Okay. Oh, okay.
>> So this this conversation happened in
2025. And at the time, you know, I'm I'm
a college basketball player. Um, I don't
really care about hay, but you know, I
always knew I wanted to kind of get into
entrepreneurialship, I guess. And I'm
like, dad, you know, you know, you know,
I want to run a business, but you know,
hay is definitely not going to get me a
girlfriend. So, that's kind of how it
started. And that's kind of how it
started. And you know, as I got to
college, I was introduced to kind of AI,
which kind of started out as um you
know, vibe coding websites for local
businesses. And then I actually my
co-founder Cole, who is very intelligent
with the AI, we kind of just started
working together about it to get to the
more agentic and automation type of AI.
So that kind of started a rabbit hole.
I'm like, which kind of started out as a
vibe code project with no infrastructure
or no system at all. um kind of turned
into something we thought uh we knew
that was reachable. So we kind of got
into that. Um you know just we we
basically hop on a call every day
deciding how we can improve our product,
improve our technology so we can produce
the best volume and you know the hay
market is very untransparent I guess you
could say. So we found a problem. Uh you
know first week of college classes in
the business class you're going to learn
okay you need to find a problem and then
a solution to start a successful
business. And uh that's kind of how it
all came about. And you know, we've been
kind of attacking it every day. And I'm
very grateful for my dad to ask the
question, what is the price of alpha
alpha and hay?
>> Uh do you have a girlfriend now? Did you
get one yet?
>> Uh absolutely not. So people ask um what
type of business you run and I just say
I try to you know mask it as something
really intelligent like yeah I run a
market intelligent AI infrastructure
company and not just a market hey market
company. So, no. Um, in the process.
>> All right. Well, odd thoughts listeners
in in Minnesota,
>> uh, eligible young bachelor, uh, 20
years old, um, just, uh, we're just
putting it out there, maybe we'll do,
uh, we can do some matchmaking for you.
Um this [laughter] just um had your dad
had this idea, I don't know, had this
been 10 years earlier, like orders of
magnitude, would this have been doable
at all to you and your co-founder in a
real way prior to AI and vibe coding as
we know it?
>> Oh no. 10 years ago, I don't think I
would even scratch the surface of
getting to the death I am here now. Um,
and that's just simply because I think
the infrastructure of AI is getting
smarter and smarter every day and it
makes it able for, you know, two young
20-year-olds like me and my co-founder
Cole to, you know, mess around and
create a whole company and platform. So,
um, yeah, I don't I don't think it would
be um it would probably take a big team
uh 10 years ago.
>> Tracy, I I already want to be Aiden
Johnson. Like, I'm everything about this
is just like so cool to me. Like, in my
next life, this is my plan. Well, go out
and find that niche market.
>> Find your hay, you know, find your
alpha. Yeah.
>> What is your hay?
>> Pursue your Timothy dream. Um, okay.
Well, why don't we actually get to hay
prices? So, first of all, if I try to
look up hay prices, I'm definitely going
to haywire, but setting haywire aside,
what am I trying to find? Is there a
benchmark hay price out there? the way
there is, you know, when we talk about
US stocks, we talk about the S&P 500 or
another index like the Dow Jones. Is
there a particular hay price I should be
looking at?
>> You know, not really. Um, the USDA,
USDA, um, NASS is what it's called,
will, you know, produce kind of an
average cost of hay. So, right now, I'm
looking at hay for April, it's $180 per
ton, which is up $167 from March. And
then for the alpha alpha side of things,
it's $185 a ton, which is up from $175
since March. So essentially, I was
talking to Levy Russ at Rock Valley and
I was kind of kind of explaining this
issue and I'm like, how do people really
know what they're paying for hay and
like what do they benchmark it against?
Cuz you know, people aren't really going
into those USDA PDF files unless you
kind of have a a degree in economics
and, you know, have the time to find it.
So I kind of talked to him and he's
like, "Yeah, actually we have a lot of
people in our region, uh, Rock Valley
specifically is in the Midwest, um, use
their auction data as the benchmark of
kind of what hay is going for." So the
crazy thing about the hay market is what
I realized it's not just one market. Um,
it's like fragmented markets across the
whole country. Every market, every
regional market is very hyper local
simply because transportation costs are
a lot. you can't domestically transport
it across the country and then you you
think like there's so many inputs um how
it affects the quality of hay to you
know produce the output you know
Minnesota hay may not be the same as
California hay in terms of price because
it's just all h very hyper local markets
>> [music]
[music]
>> just on the girlfriend thing. You're 66
[laughter] and you can dunk a
basketball, I see on Twitter. Okay,
sorry. I'm just
>> Oh, you're really doing all you can to
help here, Joe.
>> I'm I'm looking at his uh Twitter
[laughter] profile and uh and you can
dunk. I'm really impressed. I wish I I
couldn't.
>> Appreciate that. Appreciate it.
>> Yeah. No, it's uh it's really cool.
Let's talk about these um to what
degree. All right. There's this lack of
transparency and there's this wide
variety of prices regionally which again
is not unlike many other uh commodities.
I mean even oil obviously has regional
price variations. The cost of shipping
is going to affect it. But you know we
talked about this with lumber with
Stinson and Dean as an example. To what
degree are they generally correlated
across the country? Like will they gener
will prices generally rise and fall
around the same time even if there are
wide gaps in the un uh you know wide
spreads from one region to another?
>> Yeah. So there is a bunch of different
factors to kind of how um different
regions can uh you know be affected by
markets. I mean, you think of what's
kind of going on in the west right now.
Um, with the the drought kind of going
on, 46% of the US alphalfpha acreage is
actually in a drought. So, you might see
some demand coming from the west maybe
moving east, but actually I was kind of
looking into this the other day and it's
I was like kind of looking at the east
coast kind of because I I don't really
like there's not really much out there I
guess for hay. I mean, there's lot hobby
farms and it's like small square markets
out there, but it's kind of its own
ecosystem cuz it's cool because
>> it it won't really feel the effects of
the drought from the west simply because
transportation is a big factor in that
because you're not going to ship or
transport hay that far because it just
it will eventually cost more than the
actual value of the hay. simply because,
you know, these brokers, these dealers
will charge anywhere from $5 to $8 per
mile to have it shipped. So, that can
easily average to be more valuable than
the hay. So, it's it's kind of it's kind
of weird. So, yeah. Um I guess
>> so. If I'm in a location, one of the
droughtstricken
uh states, droughtstricken states,
that's hard to say. Um, I'm reading the
USDA, one of the USDA reports right now,
and it says, "Hay prices continue to
increase as ranchers search for hay."
Are you seeing people who are trying to
like bulk buy or secure supply ahead of
more price increases?
>> I mean, yeah, I'm I'm I'm seeing right
now and, you know, just talking with
farmers kind of networking across the
country, um, I'm seeing people are
trying to get their stockpile for
summer. I'm hearing that first cut is
being extremely light. the yields are
not really producing at a volume and
carryover from 2025 is essentially gone.
>> Sorry, I actually did find uh if you
search on the terminal, Tracy,
>> if you search USDA hay prices by state
>> Oh,
>> then you can find some fairly regularly
updated price indices. So, I have to say
like I mean I understand you have a
great business going, but if any
listeners just want to spend tens of
thousands of dollars on a Bloomberg
terminal, they can also
>> any farmers out there want to look up
prices.
>> Bloomberg actually offers a uh
[laughter] a haywire competitor. You
just get a bunch of other stuff. You're
probably not uh interested. But no, but
this gets to my so like this is another
important business question. Anyone can
collect data and produce it. Then you
have to find people who will purchase it
from you. And this is the other half of
business. Some people in the house
produce and some people sell. How did
you how do you go about um finding
farmers or or growers or anyone in the
business, anyone in the chain? How do
you get them to discover haywire?
>> I guess just networking. Obviously,
Discovery, a big part of that has been
on the Homestead Reddit, where Tracy
kind of found everything, but you know,
just actively reaching out to them, I
guess. Kind of just showing them, okay,
this is what we're trying to do. Trying
to trying to be that transparency layer
just to kind of make your guys' local
markets a little easier for you and not
kind of guessing and buying blind and
selling blind. So, we're we're basically
going to them and we're like, "Okay,
this has no cost for you. just like kind
of tell us what you're seeing so we can
provide that clarity and transparency
for, you know, hay prices. You know,
we're not going to fix the whole
transparency issue. Like we're going to
try, but we probably won't. Um, but we
we just at least want to make it a
little more transparent for your local
region. You know, these farmers know
their regional market like the back of
their hand, and it especially these old
gen farmers, they're not really going to
adapt to technology like that. So it's
been kind of uh difficult trying to get
them to adapt to be like okay like this
is technology nowadays like this can
actually really help your business. So
um honestly just networking with them
providing um you know kind of the data
we're seeing and kind of the value and
see showing them that there's no really
cost to just kind of sharing me your
data. Um, so Tracy mentioned the sort of
timing of purchases or people trying to
uh accumulate or stockpile at times of
high stress when prices are really high
again maybe due to a drought or whatnot.
Do you see farmers essentially expanding
their geographical search so such that
they start buying hay from an auction
house or a hay farm or whatever that
wouldn't normally be under typical
conditions economical for them to
purchase from.
>> Yeah. You know, I I actually had this
question the other day and I was on a
call with Rock Valley, my my main go-to
guy, and I was like, "Are you guys
seeing any shipping or any transactions
coming from more west of you?" Yeah,
>> I just kind of I was kind of testing a
hypothesis of okay, so the drought is
very tight over in these western states.
Are buyers coming over to these eastern
states and producing it because we did
see a spike kind of in auction data. We
kind of covered it a little bit maybe on
the Reddit, but it we called it kind of
the Missouri pattern. It was kind of
hypothesis we were testing. So it
basically is so after we figured out
that the drought and you know supply is
very very tight there in the western
states we started watching those western
Midwest states so we we saw demand in or
prices in Missouri go up and they're
like okay well we'll keep an eye on it
and then the next week we saw um Rock
Valley's prices kind of spike a little
bit and they're like okay so maybe there
is some demand coming over from there
and then the next week we saw it you
know get go up a little bit a little bit
again. So, it's kind of what we're
seeing right now. I can't confirm fully
if it's true because auction house we
track in Missouri postes their data
monthly. So, and then Rock Valley is
weekly. So, it's just a kind of cool
like I guess I'm kind of it's like a
Lego set. I'm kind of just like building
piece by piece and it's like a puzzle
trying to solve the puzzle.
>> Okay. So, talk to us. I know you're not
in agriculture directly, but I'm sure
you've heard some things about this.
talk to us about the second order
effects of higher hay prices. And here I
got to shout out our fellow Bloomberg
podcaster Katie Griffeld um who has a
horse.
>> Oh yeah.
>> And so I asked her if she had like
noticed any changes in hay prices and
she said like the cost of boarding had
gone up because of hay prices.
>> Boarding. Oh, board the horse. And then
I saw another headline just before we
recorded this podcast about a horse
sanctuary in Texas on the brink of
closure because of rising hay prices and
also gas. So are people feeling the
effects of these higher prices?
>> Yeah, absolutely. Um just talking with
farmers and you even horse owners across
the country. I personally, my family
owns horses, so I can kind of see this
firsthand. But yeah, I I've been talking
to a lot of farmer or horse owners and
they're basically saying, "We love our
horse so much, but the return on
investment on horses right now is just
like it's too it's too expensive." No,
I'm paying so much to maintain the horse
and we don't know like exactly what what
we're going to do because it's so
expensive. But and then on the other
side of things, some dairy houses, um
these these dairies are going to be the
ones buying the higher quality RF alalfa
to um you know, feed these cows that are
producing 80 pounds of milk a day. And
they're actually taking that high higher
quality RF and then mixing it with lower
quality RF to, you know, um control
their rations and, you know, maybe
create a little more volume. So,
especially with these crazy high prices,
they can kind of control their their
volume a little more. And then on top of
that, I was talking to a farmer the
other day and he said, so he went to go
put his hay up up in the auction, but he
actually pulled it back because the
demand for hay was getting so
increasingly like it was getting really
tight and he needed the hay. So, he's
kind of predicting it to get even
tighter. So yeah, as I can tell, a lot
of people are kind of feeling the out
outcomes of these high high hay prices.
>> Just to back up for uh so you mentioned
horses. Cows also eat hay, right?
>> Yes. Yes. So cows
>> cows will eat there's different types of
qualities I guess you could say.
>> Yeah. Walk through us these qualities.
Did you say something like RFD? What was
the term you used? Like higher what was
it?
>> RFV. a relative feed value. Okay. Which
basically is
>> which I think I'm pretty sure it it it
controls or it
>> it it gets the protein contents and the
fiber in the the hay. And it's it's a
base of 100. So anything like 150 I
think is pretty good. Below that you can
see the lower quality hay. So, like I
said, the dairies are going to be um
using that higher quality alalfa and
supreme hay, higher RFV to have their
cows on the best. And then you're going
to have the the e-cline people, the
horses also using this higher quality
stuff because they love their horses and
they only want what's best for their
horses. And then you have the lower
quality type of stuff which is going to
go to like the utility and fair which is
going to go to your beef which are it's
just a cheap way to you know beef up
your cow for a cheaper price instead of
paying the premium alalfa. And then yeah
there's there's there's so many
different qualities.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Just real quickly. So hay
made out of alalfa is high quality. What
is lowquality hay made out of?
>> Yeah. So lowquality um hay, which will
be lower RFV. I I'm pretty sure, you
know, I'm not a farm kid, but I'm pretty
sure it's the the amount of dryness and
the protein contents. So when when it
rains, rain affects a lot. You have to
have a dry a dry week or forecast to
produce um or cut hay. And if it rains,
rain can decrease the protein and
nutritional value in the hay.
I think the lower quality stuff is drier
and doesn't have the leaf content um
that the higher quality stuff does
because that's where the protein is in
is in the leaf and then the fiber comes
from the stem.
[music]
Are you seeing anyone devote more
acreage to growing hay as a result of
these high prices? Because I'm kind of
thinking I got I got two fields. They're
not doing anything except growing
invasive weeds at the moment. Um maybe I
could rent them out for hay production.
>> Yeah. You know, I'm not I'm not really
seeing that, but um I'm I'm not really
sure on that one if I'm seeing people
doing that. But I actually was thinking
about this other day kind of driving
past 20 minutes south of me. And I was
driving on the highway and I I realized
that Google is actually going to build a
482 acre data center 20 minutes south of
me and I was like thinking how could
this affect the agricultural land. I
mean
>> you know it's already not a lot of
people are alalfa is kind of in a weird
spot in hay because they're already
competing against the other crops um you
know the more stable crops like corn and
soybeans. So, how are these data centers
going to, you know, they're going to go
on agricultural land. So,
>> Oh, yeah.
>> kind of vice versa, you were saying, how
are they going to take away this
agricultural land? And, you know, I was
kind of thinking too, the 482 acre um
data center Google's building here is
going to be cooled by air. But what if
you put those kind of in the western
states and where the drought conditions
are and alalfa is already a very water
intrusive plant. So then alalfa is going
to have to be competing with these big
data centers for water. I I really I
really I'm really seeing kind of the
flip side of it kind of kind of just
what I'm seeing personally. So but yeah,
you did mention you had 75 acres and um
I think you do have four different
options from what I know. That's kind of
the next niche I kind of want to get
into because once again it's kind of
like the hey not my dad's kind of going
through the same process. um he just
closed on 164 acre farm here and he had
the question of I don't really know what
to do with it but I don't know I'm not
an expert on it yet but um I do know
there's a couple options you can rent it
out to your farm or to farmers basically
like rent per acre and then you can uh
the USDA will basically pay you to
conserve it and then the the downside of
that is you probably lose your land or
access to your land for 25 to 35 years.
Uh and then the third choice is kind of
the
>> money crop right now. I guess you can
these solar panel companies are coming
in to maybe place solar panel panels on
your fields um for a huge chunk of
change, but also are you okay with you
know putting solar panel on appreciating
farmland? So I mean there's there's a
couple options and like you said you can
also grow start growing hay or grow
whatever crop is producing the most
money I guess. So there's some options
that that's as much as I know right now.
But yeah, it's pretty interesting.
>> Tracy, have you considered putting a
data center on your land? [laughter]
You know, uh is that something you you
know, you could put maybe half the land
solar panels and then they could power a
data center on the other. You're getting
like so many. [laughter]
>> It's like a jackpot episode of like
things that we're interested in.
>> Well, the solar panel thing is true
because in the Northeast where I'm Yeah.
based some of the time. Um I see a lot
of farms that are now like just solar
panels. Huge fields of solar panels.
Yeah. Wow. They're so big. In fact,
whenever I drive past one, it's so big.
It looks like a body of water off in the
distance.
>> It's kind of beautiful.
>> I don't know. I mean, it's interesting.
>> Yeah, it's interesting.
>> Yeah, it's interesting. Um how big is
the hay market? Uh just generally like
what do we like? Again, I I I don't know
like Yeah. How big is it volume-wise,
dollar-wise, all that stuff?
>> Yeah. So, the hay market is actually u
pretty pretty dang big. I mean, you you
have hay acorage covering 49 to 50
million acres across the US and itself,
alalfa itself is producing 8 billion
dollars per year, which is the fourth
most valuable crop. And that kind of
brings my question back to so it's it's
pretty pretty big, you know, market
commodity and there's not really a firm
transparency layer. So yeah, it's it's
really big.
>> Are you still in college?
>> Yep. I just finished my first two years
at the University of Jamestown going
into my third.
>> Oh wow. Okay. So what you know, you're
juggling a business um as well as
college. What's next for Haywire? you
mentioned like maybe evaluating
different options for land owners, but
where do you want to take this?
>> Yeah. So, I guess like I said, the main
goal is kind of be on top of, you know,
the kind of hay chain. Uh, you know, you
got your producers, your farmers, and
then you got your brokers. We kind of
want to be at the top, uh, you know,
being the benchmark data for these
prices regionally. So, we just want to
be that information layer on the top
and, you know, just providing this
information to these farmers so they can
kind of make better decisions based off
of timing and then based off of um what
the market's actually seeing in their
region. You know, I would I I like the
newsletter. I kind of like um hearing
people connect connecting to people. I
love answering my emails and kind of
picking people's brains. And then we
would we would eventually like to also
be, you know, just kind of more the
business side of things. you know, give
someone maybe our API database and they
can use it for their website. You know,
that's kind of a a business plan, not
necessarily what we want out of the hey
market. But yeah, that's kind of what we
want to do. Just build that transparency
layer a little better.
>> You know, we work for a company that
[laughter] sort of I mean really this I
started under like the same premise. So
like that you literally, you know, you
could you could one this could one day
be a Fortune 500 company for you. I mean
this the idea of like find agricultural
database.
>> Yeah. Find some data niche, make it
built, layer on top.
>> I have a confession.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, so when I first started first
planning this business, our motto was
the Bloomberg for Hey,
>> there we [laughter] go. There we go. You
know, we've had So, can I say something?
We've had people come on. I've seen the
Bloomberg of X, Bloomberg of Y. People
always say this. This I find to be
legitimate. You know what I'm saying?
Everyone wants to be the Bloomberg of
something. But when I think about how
you're like building this from the
ground up, etc. Like you didn't even
have to say it. It's like you are
building the uh potentially the
Bloomberg of hey, one day you may have a
TV network and
>> could we [laughter] have futures based
on if we had benchmark?
>> Well, like so that's a question. I mean
this is that's clearly a theoretical way
which is like you can't have a hedgeable
tradable financialized market until you
first have that index, right? something
that everyone agrees on as a reference
price at night when you dream about the
future like could you see have you
thought about the possibility of
essentially okay this could be something
that financial exchanges could now
benchmark something against
>> you know I have thought about it but
it's also very tricky because you have
to have mother nature on your side to
kind of standardize the or like make it
more stable I guess it's it's very
unstable I mean too much drought uh too
rain, you know, too much heat. Like all
these different inputs can really have
effects on outputs that just makes it so
unpredictable, you know, like
this is why we need a this is why we
need a hedgeable instrument precisely
because of this volatility. So I think
um I think there's
>> Yeah, there's something there.
>> Yeah, there's something there for sure.
>> I I would I would love to be the guy
that does that then. [laughter]
So from your perspective,
>> let's say like you know opacity is a
friend to some people in any business,
right? There are a lot of businesses
that sort of you know they can have
higher margins because their customers
aren't aware of the prices available
like the and you know obviously the
consumer wants more uh transparency but
some people benefit from the opacity. Is
there anyone in the supply chain of hay
etc or in the market for hay that
theoretically stands to lose out if
customers are uh and farmers are more
informed about prices?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So, this kind of ties
back to my dad working for a private
brokerage here in my hometown and I was
actually talking about this with him. I
said, "Who kind of who kind of loses out
on this?" And he says typically in
business, especially commodities, the
middleman will always feel the u out or
the outcomes of more transparency
because they're the ones making deals u
especially in the hay market kind of
blindly and kind of just guessing. I
mean, I call I I witnessed firsthand my
I I sat there and someone called the
owner and was just like, um, can I do
157, this is example, can I just do $157
um per ton for, you know, x amount of
bales or tons? And he was like, yeah,
yeah, that works. So, we're not going
off anything here. There's no
transparency. And that can either work
for the broker or that can, you know,
maybe make margins a little slimmer. So,
I I do think that the middleman will
always, you know, have something to lose
with more transparency.
>> All right, Aiden Johnson of Haywire,
thank you so much for coming on
OddLocks. That was really fun.
>> Yeah, I appreciate you guys having me
on.
[music]
>> So, Joe, that was a really fun
conversation. I mean, it is fascinating
to see someone like vibe code this kind
of database, right? And it does seem
like lowhanging fruit for a bunch of
other different markets. What I will say
though is whenever we do these like
agricultural or food episodes, there
seems to be this overriding theme in
recent years, which is volatility,
right? Like we're getting these big
spikes. Sometimes we're getting big
drops down, although often the drops are
not as big as the initial spikes. And so
you can see like there is a need here
not just for price transparency but also
potentially for some sort of hedging
instrument.
>> Totally. Absolutely. I do think there's
a lot of uh probably a lot more data out
there. I also just think this is like a
very interesting AI story specifically
because it's a very clear example of
here is a new type of business
>> that might not have been economical to
run. Like you know maybe there's not
tons of subscribers willing to pay up. I
think
>> for sure you wouldn't have been doing it
while you're in college.
>> No. So the pro version. So he has a free
version of his newsletter which I'm
going to subscribe to. And there's a pro
version and you know what? I'll
subscribe to that too. It's just $14 a
month. But okay, $14 a month is like not
a ton of money. Even if you had like,
you know, a thousand, you know, it's
like it's not a ton. But if you could do
it with two people and if you can
automate a really big chunk of it. Yeah.
and automated only because AI makes it
really easy to do things like ingest the
data, turn them into pretty charts and
so forth, keep a database, give people
AI access. Suddenly there's all these
new market that markets that
theoretically could become unlocked
simply because here is data out there
and you could put it in a usable form in
a way that would have just been too
laborious prior to it.
>> Yeah. Leelious.
Leelius bales of no that was a bit
forced. I'm sorry.
>> But it's a it is a uh it is a clear
example of like okay this is a
productivity unlock
>> and I have no doubt that it works. This
is you know some things with AI like
don't work as much but I'm pretty sure
but automated you can feel pretty
confident that that's something that you
can build etc. Um I'm I'm very uh I
think it's really cool. Oh, the price of
being a founding member is going to rise
to $17 a month after June 30th. So, get
>> rising along with the hay prices. Yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow Aiden
Johnson. He's at Aiden Johnson_. And
check out Haywire. Haywire.com.
Follow our producers, Carmen Rodriguez
at Carmen Arman, Dashel Bennett at
D-Bot, Kale Brooks at Kalebrooks, and
Kevin Lozano at Kevin Lloyd Lozano. And
for more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes, and you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, [music] if
you like it when we talk about hay
prices, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg [music]
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely adree. All you need
to do is find the Bloomberg channel on
Apple Podcast and follow [music] the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
[music]
>> [music]